---
title: "PEP 582"
description: "A brief introduction to PEP 582"
---

A brief introduction to PEP 582

A few days ago I came across a new package manager for python, called [pdm](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm). I have been using poetry for about a year now and while I'm mostly happy with it hasn't been without it's problems so I'm always interested in new tools in the space. The feature of particular interest is that the pdm implements [pep 582](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0582/) which is a new module resolution proposal that would negate the need for virtual environments.

> This PEP proposes to add to Python a mechanism to automatically recognize a __pypackages__ directory and prefer importing packages installed in this location over user or global site-packages. This will avoid the steps to create, activate or deactivate "virtual environments". Python will use the __pypackages__ from the base directory of the script when present.

Virtual environments always come up when introducing new developers to python. Coming from languages like node.js they'll inevitably ask why they have to activate my environment, can't they just run `pip install` like they do with `npm`? They'll also likely struggle to find site-packages when trying to inspect a dependency. And I think those are good questions. Virtual environments feel like an implementation detail that has been exposed to the user.

While poetry and other tools have made virtual environments easy to work with, so much so that you might not even notice them, it'll still be far better to avoid them entirely. And the fact that the implementation for PEP 582 looks *fairly* simple, it'll append the `__pypackages__` folder to `sys.path` array as well as it being backwards compatible make it an attractive option. It's been in the draft stage since 2018, I hope it get's picked up soon.
